# SUFTware: Statistics Using Field Theory

SUFTware (Statistics Using Field Theory) provides a fast and lightweight Python implementation of Bayesian Field Theory algorithms for low-dimensional statistical inference. SUFTware currently supports the one-dimensional density estimation algorithm DEFT. See the Documentation page for details on the SUFTware API.


**Installation** :
pip install suftware

Requirements 

* Python >= 3.6.2 or Python = 2.7.10
* numpy >= 1.10.1
* scipy >= 1.0.0
* matplotlib >= 2.0.0
* pandas >= 0.20.3
<br/>

* Documentation: "http://suftware.readthedocs.org"
* Github: "https://github.com/jbkinney/suftware"
* PyPI: "https://pypi.python.org/pypi/suftware"

## Instructions to re-create the figures in the paper

**Figure 1** <br/>
Run the file figure_1.ipynb. The figure, named fig_1.pdf, will be saved in the directory ./figures. 

**Figure 2** <br/>
Run the file figure_2.ipynb. The simulated data stored in the directory ./simulations_final/fig2_figS3 will be plotted. The figure, named fig_2.pdf, will be saved in the directory ./figures. <br/> 
New simulation data can be generated by running the file simulations_fig2_figS3.ipynb. The new data will be saved in the directory ./simulations_test/fig2_figS3. To make a figure of the new data, copy the new data to the directory ./simulations_final/fig2_figS3 and then run the file figure_2.ipynb. (**Note**: Current number of simulations is set to 3 for demonstration purpose. To reproduce the simulation result used in the paper, set the parameter 'num_simulations' to 100. This will take several hours to finish.)

**Figure 3** <br/>
Run the file figure_3.ipynb. The experimental data, CMS2012.xisx, stored in the directory ./data will be plotted. The figure, named fig_3.pdf, will be saved in the directory ./figures.

**Figure S1** <br/>
Run the file figure_S1.ipynb. The figure, named fig_S1.pdf, will be saved in the directory ./figures.

**Figure S2** <br/>
Run the file figure_S2.ipynb. The simulated data stored in the directory ./simulations_final/figS2 will be plotted. The figure, named fig_S2.pdf, will be saved in the directory ./figures. <br/>
New simulation data can be generated by running the file simulations_figS2.ipynb. The new data will be saved in the directory ./simulations_test/figS2. To make a figure of the new data, copy the new data to the directory ./simulations_final/figS2 and then run the file figure_S2.ipynb. (**Note**: Current number of simulations is set to 3 for demonstration purpose. To reproduce the simulation result used in the paper, set the parameter 'num_simulations' to 100. This will take a couple of hours to finish.)

**Figure S3** <br/>
Run the file figure_S3.ipynb. The simulated data stored in the directory ./simulations_final/fig2_figS3 will be plotted. The figure, named fig_S3.pdf, will be saved in the directory ./figures. <br/> 
New simulation data can be generated by running the file simulations_fig2_figS3.ipynb. The new data will be saved in the directory ./simulations_test/fig2_figS3. To make a figure of the new data, copy the new data to the directory ./simulations_final/fig2_figS3 and then run the file figure_S3.ipynb. (**Note**: Current number of simulations is set to 3 for demonstration purpose. To reproduce the simulation result used in the paper, set the parameter 'num_simulations' to 100. This will take several hours to finish.)

**Figure S4** <br/>
Run the file figure_S4.ipynb. The figure, named fig_S4.pdf, will be saved in the directory ./figures.

